---
layout: post
title: "CS373 Fall 2017 Week 2: Helen Salgi"
---

### What did you do this past week?

I worked on Collatz and I managed to pass the first test in hackerrank. Now I have to do the optimizations for it. I did readings for my other classes and finished season 5 of Game of Thrones. I also went to a concert that used admition prices to raise money for hurricane Harvey relief. It was a pretty nice concert that showcased some local bands. I learned about n-grams and frequencies of words appearing next to each other, like the probability of a word following given the word before it. 

### What's in your way?

Life. Liberty. And the pursuit of happiness. And spelling.

But actually, what's really in my way is my understanding of the meta cache. I don't quite know where to start on optimizations, or how I am really supposed to do them. It's going to take a lot of thinking and googling, but when does it not?Funniy enough I don't think time will be in my way this time because I started early enough to work at a reasonable pace and not get stressed. I knew this was going to take me a while, so I started really early. However, another thing in my way will probably be turning it in. Doing all the Travis CI stuff and having more than one repo is pretty annoying to keep track of. I'm ignoring a lot of that right now and just trying to focus on getting the program to work. I'm not looking forward to the point where I have to stop ignoring it. 

### What will you do next week?

I am going to go to go to Popeye's with some friends and start season 6 of Game of Thrones. 

Concerning computer science and swe, I will start on the second project for class after finishing Collatz. I won't be joining any groups, so I will be trying to do as much of it as I can by myself. I will also do some readings and learn more about NLP stuff in my Language and Computers class, and I will keep trying to take Joel S.'s advice on doing well in my non-cs and non-major classes. 

### What's my experience of the class?

I started realizing the difference between me and the students in it. Some of the things that should be basic and prior knowledge to everyone in the class, are not to me. I can easily look the stuff up and figure it out, or ask for help and have it explained to me. The readings are easy though, and some of them are fun to read, which is more than I can say for some of my other classes. 

I still think the professor goes at a good pace and is pretty easy to understand, but I really hope he never asks me a question in class. I'm not looking forward to that moment, if it ever comes. If it does, I really hope it's the 10% of questions I know the answer to. Aside from the questions, I really like how the professor helps us with the projects by giving us pretty obvious hints and showing us different methods we can use to make our code better. You have to do a lot o self learning out of class to actually be able to do things properly, but he gives a good start of what to look for and what to learn instead of having us be completely lost. 

### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

#### ideaone.com
 - [link](https://ideone.com/)

This is like an online IDE , so you can test your code really fast. You can choose whatever language you want (there is a pretty wide selection). It's pretty cool and useful so check it out if you want to. 
