---
layout: post
title: "CS373 Fall 2017 Week 5: Helen Salgi"
---

### What did you do this past week?

I worked on my Python side project called Voting. Right now it is only supposed to make a file, read what is on it, and give me the results that I am looking for. The idea is to build off of it and continuously add things to it like graphs, and then eventually make it into something like a website. I'm not exactly sure where I am going to go with it yet, but right now I am working on getting the basics of it working. 
I also watched my group work on their Marvel website this week. It is no where near the finished product, but I personally think it looks like a good start. I wasn't really able to help much with building it, but I did help edit the technical report. 
With regards to my other classes, I have officially decided to do a computer science certificate and I will be starting that next semester while keeping the Linguistics major and French minor. I may also choose to audit some other CS classes that the certificate does not offer if they seem useful to me. 

### What's in your way?

It is extremely difficult for me to figure out where to start on a programming assignment. I've gotten some good advice recently to articulate it in English and then just translate it into code instead of just staring at the screen and trying to figure it out in my head. I still have trouble actually forming simple ideas and steps for what I want my program to do, a lot of this is because I lack practice other times it is because I do not actually understand what I need to do, so clarification is necessary. I have found that this makes it easier to ask questions because it allows me to come up with specific questions instead of "I have no idea what I am supposed to do". 

### What will you do next week?

I will finish the basic Voting assignment and then start working on the next upgrade for it. I will also most likely meet up with my group if they decide to start working on the next phase of the website, or continue working on it. 
As for things not related to CS, I will be going to meet up with a career counselor to talk about possible paths I can take that I am interested in and how to get started on that as soon as possible. Since midterms are coming up, I will be studying for those as well. 

### What's my experience of the class?

I like what we are learning right now, and what we just recently went over. Operators and Iterables/Iterators are pretty neat. It's interesting to see how these things actually work, and I like the way the professor tries to show us what is actually going on when we write a piece of code. I feel like that actually makes it a lot easier to understand what is happening, especially if we end up making errors in our programs later. It will be easier to figure out why and what we can odo ito fix it. Sometimes I honestly get a little bit confused for a bit, but then it usually clears up later. It's also really convenient that he keeps his notes online in case I miss something in class. 

### What's my tip-of-the-week or pick-of-the-week?

I just want to put this out there, even though it should be obvious. Even if you are taking a bunch of hard classes and you absolutely have to work continuously 25/7 (yes, 25), you should still take at least one day or part of a day during the week to just stop. Burning out is the worst feeling and it is important to find some sort of balance.
Here is something that isn't really a tip of the week, but I was shown this Reddit post that linked to a git repository of a lot of free programming books. It might be pretty useful.

#### https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books/blob/master/free-programming-books.md
 - [link](https://github.com/EbookFoundation/free-programming-books/blob/master/free-programming-books.md)
