---
layout: post
title: "CS373 Fall 2017 Week 4: Helen Salgi"
---

### What did you do this past week?

I finished season seven of Game of Thrones! Now I have to wait for over a year for the eighth season to come out. In regards to SWE, I got into a group as an observer to see how they build the website. I also got my first side project to do for Python which I am currently working on now. My main purpose for auditing this class was for me to learn Python, so this week I started on a project about population voting. This week I also learned a lot about bit-wise stuff and APIs. I didn't really know about any of that before now (unfortunately my prior knowledge is nonexistent). But now I do! I also finally got my first 6/6 on a quiz. Even though it was an insanely easy quiz, I was still happy. Sadly I did not have access to the first 3 insanely easy quizzes at the beginning of the semester. 

### What's in your way?

I am taking 15 hours and auditing SWE on top of that so it is honestly a bit difficult for me to keep up with everything. I am doing pretty well, but it gets stressing. Especially because I need a lot of time to do a programming assignment and it is a bit hard to find that time with 5 other classes worth of work to do. Another thing that is in my way is my complete and utter lack of common knowledge. Thankfully, TA office hours help a LOT with this. If the professor glosses over something in class because "we should have already learned this" (most people already have, I'm just the odd one out), I can just go to office hours after and have it explained to me. 

### What will you do next week?

I will continue working on the voting project and continue observing my classmates in how they make their website. It's pretty interesting to watch them start building it. They are really nice and patient with me too. If I have any questions about what they are doing or what they are using, they always take the time to stop and explain it to me. 
As for non-computer science things, I will be working on my first English essay of the semester on the book Minaret (I basically finished all the reast of my homework already because I could not afford to wait). I will also be starting a new show to replace Game of Thrones, because I need entertainment while I eat. It is called Naruto Kai and it is basically a sped up version of Naruto and Naruto Shippuden.

### What's my experience of the class?

I still like it. As I said before, anything I am having trouble with I can just ask a TA about or I can ask my group members about. They are very understanding and I appreciate it. I really like the way the professor teaches too. I don't really have other CS classes to compare this with, but he always has examples that are pretty simple and easy to go through. They are also short enough to write down so that I can just open my notebook and look at them later. I was a bit sad that we didn't go over that one quiz on the day the guest speaker came because I got one wrong and I wanted to know which one it was and why. 

### What's my tip-of-the-week or pick-of-the-week?

#### learnxinyminutes.com/docs/python3/
 - [link](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/python3/)
We learned a lot of this in class, but I found this a little while ago and I thought it was a nice little summary of Python. It does not have EVERYTHING, but it definitely has a decent amount of things on there, so it could be nice as a refresher. There's also some things we haven't quite learned yet which are pretty cool.

#### learnyouahaskell.com
 - [link](http://learnyouahaskell.com/chapters)
If you haven't realize it yet, I'm a bit of a fan of Haskell even though it's pretty hard. This tutorial is actually great and and pretty easy to read through. This doesn't really have to do with SWE, but neither did the Lisp book and both of these are good.
